## Extreme Programming Section 2 Chapter 18 & 19

# Overview
- these 2 chapters compare 2 distinctive management strategies. The first is "Scientific Management" 

## Chapter 18 Taloryism and  Software
# The One Best Way
Fedrick Talyor was the first industrial engineer and led the efficiency movement of 1890's. He wrote the book The Principles of Scientific Management (1911).c To improve factory productivity apply the methods of science: observation, hypothesis sand experimentation.

- Premise: 
	- workers work slowly or badly but not so much to be noticed.
		- workers are there for the paycheck.
	- things go according to a plan.
		- Gant charts
	- micro optimization leads to macro optimization
	- people are widgets that can be interchanged and need to be told what to do.

The premise that there is one best way to do any piece of work. He observes a worker, devise alternative ways doing the task, observe these, and pick the best way.

# Taylorism in software Development 
People making the decision on how long things will take, for someone else's work, rather than those directly making the product.

Separate Quality control department to ensure workers worked at the right pace and in the specified way in order to achieve the right level of quality.

- having a separate organization unit or department sends the signal that QA is as important as engineering, or marketing or sales. 
- putting the QA Dept witin engineering sends the message engineering and qa are seperate and parallel activities.

# Seperating quality from engineering makes the job of quality punitive instead of constructive