## Meetings

1. Objective for meeting:  What are you trying to accomplish?

2. Success criteria:   Can you determine how a meeting is successful?  (e.g., resolution of conflict, alignment on go forward design, creation of 1st design (working session), agreement on assignment of takeaways to come back and present). Put it in writing so everyone understands what success looks like

3. number of participants:  No meeting should have more than 8-10 people.  If you need more people, the scope of your meeting is too big and you should chunk it up in a way to reduce scope and # of participants

4. Meeting minutes that list out the 1-3 and a summary of conversation to appropriate detail so that participants (and other parties that might be interested) get the resolution, success criteria or alternatively why the meeting wasn’t success  “we couldn’t agree, need leadership to break the tie” or who is assigned tasks and due dates for those tasks (if agreed to, hopefully not open ended)

	- Meeting minutes must be sent to participants within 72 hours of meeting (hopefully sooner)
	 
# Team members that do not see the above in invites should remind the Inviter to put this in the invite but if they don’t see the above, they have air cover to reject the meeting!

## Example
# Meeting Purpose: 
To have the application delivery key stakeholders communicate their business needs to the devops team. In short, the appdev Team wants to be able to perform unit testing, report code coverage results, and promote code/builds using Jenkins (if it is a viable option).
 
# Meeting Outcome: 
The devops Team understands the requirements and the application delivery  Team understands the next stops for using Jenkins (i.e., unit testing, code coverage reporting and migrating code).

